{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1344\cocoasubrtf720
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;\red245\green245\blue245;\red38\green38\blue38;
\red245\green245\blue245;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 1. Show all the tables.\
	\\dt\
2. Show all the users.\
	\\du\
3. Show all the data in the owners table.\
	\cf4 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 SELECT * FROM owners;\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
4. Show the names of all owners.\
	SELECT names FROM owners;\
5. Show the ages of all of the owners in ascending order.\
	SELECT ages FROM owners ORDER BY ages ASC;\
6. Show the name of an owner whose name is Donald.\
	SELECT name FROM owners WHERE name=\'91Donald\'92;\
7. Show the age of all owners who are older than 30.\
	SELECT age FROM owners WHERE age>\'9230\'92;\
8. Show the name of all owners whose name starts with an E.\
	SELECT name FROM owners WHERE name LIKE \'91E%\'92;\
9. Add an owner named John who is 33 years old to the owners table.\
	INSERT INTO owners (name, age) VALUES (\'91John\'92, \'9233\'92);\
10. Add an owner named Jane who is 43 years old to the owners table.\
	INSERT INTO owners (name, age) VALUES (\'91Jane\'92, \'9243\'92);\
11. Change Jane's age to 30.\
	UPDATE owners SET age = \'9230\'92 WHERE name = \'91Jane\'92;\
12. Change Jane's name to Janet.\
	UPDATE owners SET name = \'91Janet\'92 WHERE owner_id = \'916\'92;\
13. Add a property named Archstone that has 20 units.\
	INSERT INTO properties (name, number_of_units, owner-id) VALUES (\'91Archstone\'92, \'9220\'92, 5);\
14. Delete the owner named Jane.\
	DELETE from owners WHERE name = \'91Jane\'92;\
15. Show all of the properties in alphabetical order that are not named Archstone and do not have an id of 3 or 5.\
	SELECT name FROM properties WHERE name != \'91Archstone\'92 AND property_id != \'913\'92 AND property_id != \'915\'92 \cf4 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 ORDER BY name ASC\cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 ;\
16. Count the total number of rows in the properties table.\
	SELECT count(*) FROM properties;\
17. Show the highest age of all owners.\
	SELECT MAX(age) FROM owners;\
18. Show the names of the first three owners in your owners table.\
	SELECT name FROM owners ORDER BY owner_id LIMIT 3;\
19. Create a foreign key that references the owner_id in the owners table and forces the constraint ON DELETE NO ACTION.\
	ALTER TABLE properties ADD new_id INTEGER;\
20. Show all of the information from the owners table and the properties table in one joined table.\
	SELECT * FROM owners INNER JOIN properties ON owners.owner_id = properties.owner_id;\
	\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl512\sa320

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \cb1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 Bonus (this might require you to look up documentation online)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl380

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 1. In the properties table change the name of the column "name" to "property_name". \
	ALTER TABLE properties RENAME COLUMN name TO property_name;\
2. Count the total number of properties where the owner_id is between 1 and 3.\
	SELECT COUNT(*) FROM properties WHERE owner_id >= 1 AND owner_id <= 3;}